                      Mark M. Mims, Ph.D. - Resume


Contact Information:

Mark M. Mims, Ph.D.
Austin/Boulder

Email: mark.mims@gmail.com
URL: http://www.markmims.com/


Summary:

    * Member of the Ubuntu Server Team
    * Software Developer (Rails, Ruby/C++/Java)
    * Design/Build Private & Hybrid Clouds
    * Enterprise Integration (Chief Architect for $30MM J2EE project in
      the Energy Industry)
    * 3D Modeling/Simulation/AI
    * Ph.D. Physics
    

Employment History:

    Software Engineer - Ubuntu Server
    Canonical Ltd. (Global)
    2011-Present
    
    Part of the team working to build juju, a new suite of DevOps tools
    for Ubuntu Server. Developing juju charms to orchestrate various
    services throughout the enterprise. Designing / developing APIs and
    tools surrounding the juju DevOps stack. Developing service stacks
    for everything from Hadoop clusters to complex large-scale
    infrastructures like Wikipedia. Integrate / test deployments on bare
    metal as well as EC2, Eucalyptus, and OpenStack cloud
    infrastructures.
    
    
    Cloud Architect
    Archethought (Austin, TX)
    2010-2011
    
    Archethought is a consulting firm specializing in designing and
    building *private and hybrid clouds* for colleges and universities
    around the world. This helps universities take advantage of more
    efficient Virtualization technologies, provide infrastructure as a
    service within the university, and safely explore various emerging
    Digital Library technologies.
    
    Design and Deliver all software, networking, configuration and
    monitoring needed to set up and support a Cloud Computing System,
    Storage Systems, and cloud-based High Performance Computing Systems.
    Help integrate the Cloud Computing System with existing systems and
    applications throughout the university environment.
    
    This includes a web-based (Rails) Cloud Management Console with
    account, instance, image, and storage management.
    
    Technology Used: Eucalyptus, AWS/EC2 API, RightAWS, Ruby, Rails,
    Chef.
    
    
    Chief Scientist
    Agile Dynamics (Austin, TX)
    2005-2011
    
    Agile Dynamics is a consulting firm specializing in *data-driven
    decision making*, helping businesses adopt a more quantitative view
    of everyday business decisions. We provide the leadership, business
    acumen, and technical expertise necessary to adapt business
    processes and implement the enterprise software needed to support
    this process across various different industries.
    
    Designed and built a *data-driven decision support system* for the
    Jamaican Ministry of Education. This USAID-sponsored project serves
    primary and secondary educational institutions throughout the nation
    and gives the Ministry previously unknown visibility into the state
    of education on the Island. This application was built using Rails
    and scales dynamically in EC2 using Chef.
    
    Designed the next generation of application for a company offering
    Fleet/Inventory Tracking services. This company provides web
    services and whitelabel web portals to track assets using their
    proprietary GPS tracking hardware. The new design helped prepare for
    *integration into Machine to Machine (M2M) data market*.
    
    Provide *ad-hoc data-munging* services to a variety of businesses.
    Designed/built web-based bulk data importers for textbook
    distributors to manage inventory from publishers with various
    proprietary and standard (ONIX) formats. Designed/built web-based
    bulk data importers for a game company wanting a portal for
    customers to manage game content.
    
    Provide *social network integration* services to help today's
    businesses migrate away from traditional marketing models and
    embrace a new role as part of a community of customers. This
    includes management consulting and the development of web-based
    applications and Facebook apps using Ruby on Rails.
    
    Provided quantitative marketing tools and services for the
    visualization and *modeling of social networks*. Allowed for trend
    identification and analysis, growth rate predictions, and what-if
    scenarios for various network and Web-2.0 businesses. This was
    developed using Ruby/MySQL with Rails/GraphViz visualization.
    
    Provided environmental simulation and modeling solutions to track
    pollutants in the Florida Everglades. Created numerical
    *hydrodynamic mass balance models* that are used to calculate tax
    incentives/penalties for surrounding commercial land. This was
    developed using Java/SWT/WebStart and interfaced with a variety of
    legacy apps and databases.
    
    Technology Used: Ruby, Rails, Java, SWT/JFace.
    
    
    Chief Technology Officer
    Rational Systems (Houston, TX)
    2002-2005
    
    Developed business models for the Energy Industry and then designed
    / developed systems to implement these models. For regulated energy
    utilities, this allows for efficient daily operations and longterm
    optimization decisions. Directed delivery of two complete product
    lines, Rational Pipe(TM) and Rational Catalyst(TM), from conception.
    
    Rational Pipe is software designed to *manage the commercial
    activities of interstate natural gas pipelines*, including
    contracts, CRM, tariffs, capacity release, nominations, allocations
    and invoicing. It was the result of a 140+ man-year, joint
    development project between Rational Systems and a major US
    interstate natural gas pipeline, utilizing Rational's Rights-Based
    engine (pat pending).
    
    Chief Architect for this $30M project delivered on time and on
    budget. Provided Technical leadership for a team of approximately
    thirty developers and twenty testers. Directly developed components
    across the system, including: gas flow, physical pipe, scheduling,
    and the JMX-based system management console.
    
    Rational Catalyst is a business simulation and analysis framework
    used in energy production, exploration, and gathering. It is
    software that enables *collaborative business modeling* by
    integrating small disparate models of various aspects of the
    business together making model data available across the enterprise.
    Catalyst packages data mining, revision control for both data and
    models, and various visualization tools including configurable
    executive dashboards into one complete package for business
    analysis.
    
    Chief Architect for the Rational Catalyst team of four developers
    and two testers. Directly developed add-in interface components for
    Microsoft Excel 2000 using MFC/ATL/COM plugins in C++.
    
    Technology Used: Java, C#, C++, J2EE Design/Development, .NET,
    Business modeling, MFC, ATL, COM, Tibco, SQLServer 2000 with
    Analysis Services, Enterprise Hardware (Compaq/HP) running Windows
    2000 Server, Windows 2003 Server, Red Hat 9 and Fedora Core 2-3,
    Microsoft SharePoint, Linux.
    
    
    Lead Software Architect
    The AEgis Technologies Group, Inc. (Austin, TX)
    2000-2002
    
    Principal architect of AEgis' AcslXtreme(TM) product line, a suite
    of *commercial simulation tools* based on the industry standard
    ACSL(TM) (Advanced Continuous Simulation Language). Leader of a
    development team responsible for refactoring and modernizing the
    ACSL language as well as developing a complete modern development
    environment for simulation engineers. Responsible for coordinating
    all technical activities and artifacts throughout the lifecycle of
    the project.
    
    Directly developed software components across the product line: for
    ACSL language translation, compilation, interpretation, symbolic
    mathematical manipulation, numerical integration and analysis,
    numerical optimization, build management, simulation execution
    management, communications infrastructure (using both distributing
    and componenting technologies), and developing user interface
    component APIs.
    
    Technology Used: C/C++, C#, Java, .NET, MATLAB, VB, FORTRAN, UNIX
    and Win32 systems programming, MFC, COM/DCOM, CORBA, SOAP, HLA,
    ANTLR, lex/yacc, UML, RUP, GoF design patterns, object-oriented
    design, component-based design, Windows .NET, Various flavors of
    UNIX/Linux (some components native, UI(MFC) components ported using
    Bristol porting tools).
    
    
    Software Developer
    Wesson International, Inc., now Adacel Technologies, Ltd. (Austin, TX)
    1996-1998
    
    Responsible for creating and maintaining realistic aircraft movement
    and intelligent pilot behavior in a multi-platform, scaleable *air
    traffic control (ATC) simulator*.
    
    Integrated tower ATC, radar ATC, and flight simulators in order to
    simultaneously train tower controllers, radar controllers, and
    pilots. Distributed the system using CORBA and the US Defense
    Department's High Level Architecture (HLA). Spearheaded the
    simulator port to C++ on a POSIX-compliant kernel.
    
    In addition to movement and pilot intelligence in a soft real-time
    environment, responsibilities included on-site customization for
    systems installed in Alaska and Hong Kong, graphics programming
    using SGI's IRIS Performer toolkit, and developing networking tools
    to assist in distributing the simulators.
    
    Technology Used: C/C++, Tcl/Tk, UNIX and Win32 systems programming,
    (soft) real-time process scheduling/event management, resource
    conflict resolution/management, network programming using TCP/IP and
    NetBIOS, Silicon Graphics O_2, Onyx Reality Engine, and Onyx2
    Infinite Reality high-end graphics systems running IRIX(UNIX), i386
    hardware running Linux, Win95, NT-4.0, and an in-house real-time OS
    over DOS/4GW.
    
    
    Instructor
    Dept. of Physics - UT Austin (Austin, TX)
    1994-2000
    
    Physical Science I: Mechanics (AI, Instructor of Record)
    
    Lab for Engineering Physics I (TA)
    
    Lab for General Physics II (TA)
    
    
    Lecturer
    Austin Community College (Austin, TX)
    1995-1996
    
    Intro to General Physics I
    
    Engineering Physics I
    

Education:

    Ph.D. in Physics, 2000
    The University of Texas at Austin
    
    Projects:
    * Dissertation: "Dynamical Stability of Quantum Algorithms."
      Supervisor: E.C.G. Sudarshan Created a numerical model to
      characterize noise in Grover's quantum search algorithm. This
      model was then used to determine the maximum amount of noise that
      the bare algorithm can tolerate before failing. This is useful in
      determining exactly which emerging technologies will prove to be
      viable for implementing quantum computers. Technology Used: C++,
      Perl, BASH script, LaTeX, numerical solutions to ODEs,
      randomization, various matrix calculations (using blitz++, TNT,
      and LAPACK).
    
    B.S. in Physics, 1992
    The University of Texas at Austin
    
    B.S. in Mathematics, 1992
    The University of Texas at Austin
    
    Projects:
    * Thesis: "Path Integration on Multiply Connected Configuration
      Spaces." Supervisor: Ce'cile DeWitt-Morette
    

Publications:

    Clint Byrum, Mark Mims, Juan Negron. DevOps on Ubuntu Server.
    2012(in progress).

    Luis J. Boya, Mark Byrd, Mark Mims, E. C. G. Sudarshan.
    "Geometry of n-state systems, pure and mixed". J. Phys.: Conf.
    Ser. 87 012006. 2007.

    Mark Mims. "Dynamical Stability of Quantum Algorithms".
    Dissertation, ISBN:0-493-13630-4. The University of Texas at
    Austin. 2000.

